Welcome to Japan Treasure Hunters I'm
Jonathan Lucas and today is a great day
for me and a couple of my other friends
that are out here.
We are on a Iwo Jima again as we all know Iwo Jima was like the main focal
point in the Pacific and the reason why
is because this was an airfield and this
gave the United States a close enough
margin to Japan in order to attack and
then be able to receive airplanes back
here if they were damaged ultimately
saving lives. Unfortunately it took a lot
of lives to take this island so right
now I'm standing on Mount Suribachi and as you can see the the big
memorial to where the flag was raised.
Right over here this is where Sergeant
Ganoust actually took the famous film
right here and the actual flag was
raised right over there.
Suribachi is ours.
So this place is very very very surreal,
you, you don't know the feeling and and
and the thought that goes through and
especially once you come around over.
Here you're gonna look at this beach
area and looking at this beach area, this
whole ocean right out here was filled
with 800 ships, which to me is amazing
anyway, it's just the logistics and then
if you look at the beach now it's
actually raised up about a hundred
meters or so and there's actually two
lips and and the landing craft when they
came on they came up to the first one
right there and that's the one that you
see on all the films where where the
Marines stopped and they had to go up
the hill and just try to picture this in
your mind that seventy-three three years
ago seventy-three years ago this was all
desolated there was no green anywhere. So now you know you can see some buildings
over there that's where the actual
airfields at now but you can see that
just this little piece of island was
that important that we take so this time
on Japan Treasure Hunters we're gonna go hit all try to hit all the shrines all
the memorials and a lot of sites of
interest that I think that you would
like to see because not everybody can
come out here and do this.  So I'm ready
to hit it and let's go.
All right so we're still on top it's
Suribachi here and you can see there's
there's a couple other monuments for the
Japanese soldiers that were here.
we are actually gonna walk down over here a little bit and there's a bunker over
here that's a that they used to shoot
towards the beach Suribachi was filled
with caves tunnels and the second
command post that the actual command
post.  Will go into that cave later but
this was like the main part that that
the Marines had to take.  In order to take
this it took them four days in order to
get from the beach up to here and the
fifth Marine Division H company is the
one that actually came up here and did
this so bless their souls.  Absolutely
amazing I was in the military I never
had the chance to fight but just being
here and seeing the sand and and imagine
not being able to see your enemy where
they're coming from
is just mind-blowing. It's incredible so
let's go check out this bunker.  Alright
so we took a little walk down the trail
here to come down here to where the gun
emplacements were, you can see over here
there's there's two guns that were
pointed down towards the beach over here,
and sitting up here is just like it's
still surreal to see the water and the
beach and just everything thinking that
there was 800 ships out here sending
Marines in at 9 o'clock in the morning
on February 19, 1945.  But the caves and
the bunkers on Suribachi have been
closed they've been sealed off for the
most part and the reason for that is
because we're actually sitting on a live
volcano right now and right over here is
actually the crater of the volcano you
can look down and you can see actually a
small cone that's kind of steaming up a
little bit here but it's just it's just
mind-blowing that we're out here on a
live volcano in the middle of the
Pacific.  Okay so right now we're on the
west side  of Iwo Jima the West side Beach and I like to call this Beach, The Graveyard of
Ships because ships behind me that are a bunch ships that were concreted over
over and left out in the water as a
barrier to keep the ships coming in
help guide the Marines into a certain
area. So that way they were easier
targets.  These actually used to be out in
the water about 200 yards this, this area
right up here used to be the beach
actually if water would come all the way
up this far the past seventy-three
years, the island's raised up that far we're
gonna take a walk down the beach and we're
gonna have a gander at the ships.
Alright so now we're standing in front
of Painted Rock which is you can see it's a
carving of the flag-raising on Mount
Suribachi.
Out of all the places on the island this
is my second favorite one to come to
just because it shows like historical,
it's extremely historic
you can see names, dates, of course you know there's some newer names and end dates but also
there's one from 1948 which I think is
really amazing.  There's not a name on who
carved it or how many people carved it
if they just know that it's it's here
and this is one of the main stops when
you come out here.
Alright so here we are at another
monumental spot on Iwo Jima where at
Oshiro Yama Ichiban Chu which is the first well it's
the big mountain the big castle mountain
first gun emplacement right.  So so
looking at the gun is actually really
cool because you look right here
it was hit with the projectile and put
the gun out of commission. So so, right
now we're actually in the bunker where
it was right now and as you can see it's
just a whole lot of chaos up in here but
if you look out here you can see where
the gun was pointed and it was probably
hit and when I was hit it moved over
here because there wasn't anything out
on this side of the ocean it was all on
that side.  So it's it's really pretty
interesting to see it and yeah let me
get out of the way and get a good shot
of the whole gun.  Yeah it's just amazing
to see all this stuff that's out here
still.
Alright so we came upon this monument
here,  it's it it states the Division
cemetery this plaque marks the spot of
the cemetery in which sailors and
Marines of the 3rd, 4th and 5th Marine
divisions who were killed in action
during the battle for Iwo Jima so this
is a this is a very sacred place to the
marines, obviously, but this is all that's
here now, just over overgrowth, trees and
a little bit of jungle.
Al right so here's another book bunker
if you've seen one of my previous videos
you've seen that I've been in it here
before but I've got a little more time
looking to investigate a little bit
more. So see the stand where they had the
machine gun and let's get a view of what
the Japanese could see out this hole but
at this time there was no rocks or
anything or no bushes in the way so it
was all clear grass they could see all
the way to the ocean. This side come back
over here to this side got the actual
machine gunners right here and I can
tell the front was blown out of it but
again if all this foliage wasn't here
you'd have a straight shot right down
the beach
had it been terrible that day.